+++
weight = -10
+++

# Version 1.5
6 July 2011

I am happy to announce the new release version 1.5. Below is the list of changes. In next days we will update the home page with current state. For example, we have much more to show in benchmarks section. Of course, we have many ideas and new issues to keep working on Fuel.

- Initialize instances after materialization implementing #fuelAfterMaterialization.
- Ignore transient instance variables overriding #fuelIgnoredInstanceVariableNames.
- Limit serialization progress bar to update at most once every 250 milliseconds.
- Traits are serialized and materialized as a regular objects (http://code.google.com/p/fuel/issues/detail?id=59).
- Removed mappers system cache (Eliot).
- Many new tests.
- Benchmarks: compare Fuel against StOMP, SRP, SIXX, Magma, EsAndEm and Fuel with progress bar.
- Benchmarks: new samples, scripts, and CSV exporter.
- Benchmarks: measure serialization stream size.
- Removed some redundant #fuelAccept:.
- Several aesthetic changes in protocols, categories and comments.
- Now #materialize answers the materialized root.
- Removed special cluster for HashedCollection.Now #rehash is sended via #fuelAfterMaterialization.
- MethodContext serialization does not serialize temps (http://code.google.com/p/fuel/issues/detail?id=61).
- Classes and Traits now serialize its environment (testCreateWithSmalltalkGlobalsEnvironment).
- Fixed serialization of non-octet characters (testCharacter).
- Fixed a bug serializing the system dictionary. FLWellKnownObjectsCluster handles it. (testSmalltalkGlobals).
- Fixed a bug serializing class variables (testClassVariable).
- Fixed a bug when serializing a collection with size greater than 1^16 with repeated elements inside.
- Fixed testTwoCompiledMethodsReferencingSameClassVariable.
- Optimization: instanceIndexes are directly created with the exact size (Henrik).