+++
weight = -60
+++

# Version 1.8
26 May 2012

We are proud to announce Fuel 1.8 with a lot of new features and documentation. Of course, we don't stop working but it was time to freeze a stable version.

Fuel works out of the box in Pharo from 1.1 up to 2.0 (checked at #20094). Please check our Documentation for complete installation and use guides.

Below there are some remarkable changes.

- Much more complete user guides.
- Improved API for customizing how graph is traced.
- FuelMetalevel: serialization of stuff like classes and compiled methods moved to an optional package.
- Customize objects to be treated as globals.
- Migrations: declare at materialization time class and variables renames.
- Weak references properly managed. Thanks to Juan Vuletich and Levente.
- Thanks Pavel for helping us improving FuelPackageLoader with wonderful ideas and bug reports.
- Serialization speed up on large graphs by using specialized collections. Thanks Levente.
- Encoder and Decoder: new reifications that clarify the design. Thanks Colin Putney.
- Optimized serialization of "clean" BlockClosures, which don't need the whole stack of contexts. Thanks Juan Vuletich and Eliot Miranda.
- Added a clear error hierarchy.
- Debug facilities, including graph visualization using Roassal. Thanks Alexandre and Doru.
- Many more new tests. Including those from extension packages, we have almost 600 tests.
- Repository moved from 'http://www.squeaksource.com/Fuel' to 'http://ss3.gemstone.com/ss/Fuel'.

If you are a Fuel user we are not aware of, please let us know!

Best regards,

Martin and Mariano