+++
weight = -70
+++

# Version 1.9
8 March 2013

## Announcement
We are happy to announce Fuel 1.9.

The default set of packages of this version already comes in Pharo 2.0, so you it's not necessary to install it there. However, Fuel also works out-of-the-box in Pharo from 1.1 up to 2.0, as well as in Squeak 4.1 up to 4.4. You can see our documentation for complete installation and use guides.

## Changes:

- (feature) DoIt and not-installed CompiledMethods are fully serialized by default.
- (fix) Date & DateAndTime (thanks Cami and Marcus) (already included in 1.8.1 and 1.8.2).
- (feature) New hooks methods #fuelNew and #fuelNew: for custom instantiation (see "Hooking instance creation" in Customizing the Graph).
- Globals:
- Added #globalEnvironment: to specify where the globals are looked-up. (see "Changing the environment" in Managing Globals)
- Explicit references to "Smalltalk globals" changed to "self class environment".
- A SystemDictionary instance is not treated as global when it is not "Smalltalk globals".
- Documentation:
- General update
- New Format Migration section.
- New Built-in Header Support section.
- (feature) Put back FLSerializer>>on:.
- (optimization) New clusters for SmallInteger.
- (optimization) New clusters for most common collections.
- (feature) Built-in support for header (See Built-in Header Support):
- pre and post materialization actions (clean closures).
- attach additional objects.
- materialize only the header.
- (fix) Safer substitutions (see FLPluggableSubstitutionTest>>testPrivateExcluded).
- (feature) Materialize .fuel files when drag&dropped in the image.
- (cleanup) Removed unneeded cluster: FLWellKnownObjectsCluster.

We want to thank developers of the community that enrich the project with code, issue reports and ideas.

Have fun!

Martin (on behalf of Mariano and Max, who worked a lot on this version!)